- [Instructor] So far we have build simple
docker images, run containers.
Now, in a typical docker image,
we want to copy our artifacts,
be it a JAR file, or a WAR file, or something else,
you want to copy it in there.
And when we run that docker image,
essentially we would like the container
to do something with the JAR file,
either run the JAR file,
or invoke a particular class in the JAR file,
or something like that, okay.
So, next what we're going to look at is
how is it that we can copy the files
to a docker image.
Now, in the Dockerfile, if you recall, we talked about
there are multiple instruction that would go.
Now, two of such instructions are copy and add,
and it's often confused.
Which one should I used?
So let's take a look.
Now, COPY instruction, it copy new files or directories
from your local machine to the container file system.
So let's say you are using a Maven project.
From the Maven project, you created an application,
and from that application,
there is a target directory, there is JAR file,
and you want to copy it to the container,
you would use a copy instruction.
Well, add instruction.
ADD instruction has everything that copy instruction has,
but in addition, it also allows
tar file auto-extraction in the image.
Let's say you have a tar file
that you want to get copied to the image
and then auto-extract,
that's when you would use this.
So for example, in this case you can say ADD app.tar.gz,
which is on your location machine
to opt/var/myapp directory
which is in the container file system,
so the contents of app.tar.gz will be auto-extracted
in that directory.
With add, you can also download a file from a remote URL.
Now, that's not typically recommended,
because, typically, when you download a file,
you want to auto-extract it or do something with it.
So the recommendation is, generally, use curl or wget,
based upon your operating system
or the utilities that you have available.
You use one of those tools to download the tar file,
and then extract the contents if you need to,
and then get rid of the tar file,
because, otherwise, it could cause unnecessary bloat
in your overall image size.
So that's the important aspect to understand.
What we're going to do is
we're going to take a look at the copy instruction,
and show how that can be used to copy a WAR file
into our image, and then run that image.
So let's go to our terminal.
Just like any docker image,
I'll make a new directory here by the name helloweb.
Okay, now I'm in the helloweb directory.
I'm going to go into helloweb,
and in my chapter2, which is my exercise files,
I'm going to copy the webapp.war file in this directory.
And remember, I am in helloweb.
So now, I'm going to create a Dockerfile here.
In this Dockerfile the WAR file that we have
is a Java EE application,
so we would like to deploy this into the WildFly container.
So I can just directly say FROM jboss/wildfly.
Okay.
And in order to copy the WAR file,
from my local file system,
because webapp.war file is in my current directory,
and this result from the build context
that we talked about earlier,
I'm going to copy it into my container file system,
which is
opt/jboss/wildfly/standalone/deployments/webapp.war.
That's it.
Now you may wonder, there is no CMD command.
How does this work?
Well, in jboss/wildfly image, there is a CMD command,
which by default fires up WildFly.
Let's take a look at that.
So let's go to a browser for a second.
So I'm going to go to hub.docker.com
and I will search for jboss/wildfly here.
Here is my image.
And if I look at the corresponding Dockerfile here,
if you go all the way to the bottom,
here it says it's starting WildFly
and binding to all network interfaces.
Now, we talked about how image hierarchy is used.
The other part that you also need to understand is
in multiple Dockerfiles that have been used
to create your image,
only one CMD command is effective.
So if you write a CMD in your Dockerfile,
then the CMD in the parent Dockerfile would be overridden.
In your Dockerfile, we could have multiple CMD,
only the last CMD would be effective.
But in our case, we only care about the default behavior
of WildFly starting up, so we are okay.
We don't need to override the CMD command.
We just used the copy instruction,
copy the WAR file into the WildFly standard directory,
and then WildFly will do the right thing,
so this is the default behavior.
So let's go back to our terminal,
and build our image.
So, back in the terminal here.
Let's save the image here.
We only have Dockerfile and webapp.war.
We're going to say docker image build -t helloweb,
and I'm going to go with the build context
as the current directory.
Because my JBoss WildFly image is already there,
so that layer is already available for me.
I just have to copy the WAR file, and that's it.
Now, let's take a look at image listing here.
It is my helloweb,
and this is slightly bigger than the standard WildFly image,
but what I can also do is I can say
docker image history helloweb.
It's showing you lots of details
about the WildFly image here,
but this is the copy command that we gave,
which is showing as the last image
in the helloweb directory.
Now, in order to run this container,
docker container run,
and you guess it right, we're just going to say helloweb,
ad we need to expose ports here.
So, host port, container port,
and run it in detach mode.
It's just a simple command,
and we can fire up our container here now.
Certain times you may get an error
that the port is already allocated.
Now, that error occurs typically
if you have a container that is already running,
and using that port.
Well, that can be easily fixed.
So, what you need to do is
remove the container that is using the port 8080.
You can look at the listing of the containers
by using docker container ls command,
and then use the docker container rm command
to remove that specific container.
Or for convenience, remove all the containers
just to have a clean environment.
And once again, that can be done using docker container rm,
and listing all the container IDs, space separated.
Now, if we look at the list of containers,
so docker container ls,
that is the only container running here.
Well, if you don't give it a name,
then it gives you a nice fancy name.
In this case, it's romantic_poincare.
So the key part is now I can access my application
on application name was webapp,
rest resources and persons.
Tada!
So, we ran this container earlier
by simply copying the WAR file,
but we build the image
and we run the container ourselves as well.
So, you're getting familiar with the entire
workflow of docker,
building image, running containers,
and hopefully getting more and more familiar with it.